\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename gdc.info
@settitle The GNU D Compiler

@c Merge the standard indexes into a single one.
@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ky cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@syncodeindex tp cp

@include gcc-common.texi

@c Copyright years for this manual.
@set copyrights-d 2011, 2012, 2013

@copying
@c man begin COPYRIGHT
Copyright @copyright{} @value{copyrights-d} Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the
@c man end
section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@ignore
@c man begin COPYRIGHT
man page gfdl(7).
@c man end
@end ignore
@end copying

@ifinfo
@format
@dircategory Software development
@direntry
* gdc - A GCC-based compiler for the D language
@end direntry
@end format

@insertcopying
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title The GNU D Compiler
@versionsubtitle
@author David Friedman, Iain Buclaw

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Published by the Free Software Foundation @*
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor@*
Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA@*
@sp 1
@insertcopying
@end titlepage
@contents
@page

@node Top
@top Introduction

This manual describes how to use @command{gdc}, the GNU compiler for
the o programming language.  This manual is specifically about
@command{gdc}.  For more information about the D programming
language in general, including language specifications and standard
package documentation, see @uref{http://dlang.org/}.

@menu
* Copying::                     The GNU General Public License.
* GNU Free Documentation License::
                                How you can share and copy this manual.
* Invoking gdc::                How to run gdc.
* Index::                       Index.
@end menu


@include gpl_v3.texi

@include fdl.texi


@node Invoking gdc
@chapter Invoking gdc

@c man title gdc A GCC-based compiler for the D language

@ignore
@c man begin SYNOPSIS gdc
gdc [@option{-c}]
    [@option{-g}] [@option{-pg}] [@option{-O}@var{level}]
    [@option{-I}@var{dir}@dots{}] [@option{-L}@var{dir}@dots{}]
    [@option{-o} @var{outfile}] @var{infile}@dots{}

For any given input file, the file name suffix determines what kind of
compilation is done:

@table @gcctabopt
@item @var{file}.d
D source files.

@item @var{file}.di
D interface files.

@item @var{file}.o
Object files to link in.

@item @var{file}.a
Library files to link in
@end table

@c man end
@c man begin SEEALSO
gpl(7), gfdl(7), fsf-funding(7), gcc(1)
and the Info entries for @file{gdc} and @file{gcc}.
@c man end
@end ignore

@c man begin DESCRIPTION gdc

The @command{gdc} command is a frontend to @command{gcc} and
supports many of the same options.  @xref{Option Summary, , Option
Summary, gcc, Using the GNU Compiler Collection (GCC)}.  This manual
only documents the options specific to @command{gdc}.
Most of these have both positive and negative forms; the negative
form of -ffoo would be -fno-foo.
This manual documents only one of these two forms, whichever one is
not the default.

The @command{gdc} command may be used to compile D source code into
an object file, link a collection of object files together, or do both
in sequence.

Only the most useful options are listed here; see below for the
remainder.

@c man end

@c man begin OPTIONS gdc

@table @gcctabopt
@item -Werror
@cindex @option{Werror}
Make all warnings into errors.

@item -Wno-deprecated
@cindex @option{Wno-deprecated}
Do not warn about usage of deprecated features.

@item -Wunknown-pragmas
@cindex @option{Wunknown-pragmas}
Warn when a pragma is encountered that is not understood by GDC.
@end table

@c man end

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye

